[MUSIC]
Hi, my name is Lisa Sawicki.
I'm a partner with our assurance practice.
I lead audit engagements for some of our
largest financial institution clients,
and I also lead our New York metro
financial services assurance practice.
There's no doubt that data and
analytics are critical to our
evolving assurance strategy.
I've been performing audits for 27 years,
and while our end goal
is essentially the same,
the way we go about doing our work
has very much evolved over time.
The ability to leverage large
volumes of data allows for
us to perform a higher quality audit,
allows us to be more efficient
in the way we perform our work,
and also allows us to provide better
insights back to our clients.
Data in general and
the availability of large volumes of data
is very much a part of most
conversations we have today.
Be it with our clients, or
internally as we run our business.
Everyone recognizes having
data can be powerful.
But being able to harness the data and
analyze it to enable companies and
organizations to make better decisions
is where we can really see the benefits.
Our clients are doing this
in their own business, and
they expect their service
providers to be doing the same.
Today's professionals have so much more
data readily available than ever before.
It is important for them to be curious
about the information available and
apply critical thinking skills
to help digest that information.
You use tools available to you to
summarize the data, then interpret it.
Applying both traditional thinking and
thinking outside the box
are important to any professional.
It's critical to have an open mind and
be agile as you work with the data.
And to be thinking about how the data
you'll be working with can help
you achieve your desired end result.
Presenting the data in
a useful way is critical.
So thinking about your end user
should be uppermost in your mind.
Excel is a key tool that can
help you manipulate the data
to give you some information on
historical results or trends.
You can use Excel to standardize
formulas across a large data set and
you can also use it to perform conditional
formatting to call out certain
outcomes that might be of interest.
You can also start to leverage
Macros to automate certain tasks,
which minimize error in the future and
also help efficiency.
You can use Pivot tables to help
sort through different data sets
to come up with more meaningful
information that can be further analyzed.
No doubt that being proficient at
Excel is a minimum requirement for
any professional today.
We use it a lot in our day to day tasks.
And being able to quickly maneuver through
Excel files is critical to one's success.
Let the program do the mechanical work for
you and you can focus on the output and
spend your time analyzing
that information.
Many of the clients I work with
operate in a global environment,
so consolidating and analyzing data from
a variety of sources are things we work
through on a daily basis.
As a recent example, our team and
our client wanted to get
a view of the controls that operate across
the world and among various businesses
to try to understand whether the risks
associated with the controls are similar,
and whether the controls are being
executed consistently across
the organization, and so
the team used Excel to organize and
tag different businesses and
the controls associated with them.
And also analyze the risk associated with
those controls that are implemented at
the various different locations.
Then we analyzed the data we received.
After filtering through the data in Excel,
the exercise helped identify
potential duplicate controls and
controls that are not being executed in a
consistent fashion, which was the intent.
It also helped identify areas where
the risks attributed to the controls were
different, so
the rigor at which the controls should
be tested should also be different,
commensurate with the underlying risk.
We then had an opportunity to study
the differences to determine if they were
warranted, or whether the clients should
push for improved alignment going forward.
There is no way we would have been able
to get a view across the thousands of
controls and related attributes
without leveraging the use of Excel.
Excel served as a key enabler for
this exercise,
just as it does for many other situations
we deal with on a day-to-day basis.
[MUSIC]